# Plugins
You can extend functionality of the core by writing plugins.
We created [SDK](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@wsb-harpoon/tools) for plugins that serves as a bridge between the 
core and the plugin. Wsb harpoon uses npm for managing plugins, so you can upload your plugin to npm 
repository and install it from there. If you would like to add your plugin as a pre-bundled plugin feel 
free to contact maintainers.


## Create plugin
1. create package 
    ```
    npm init 
    ```

2. install sdk for plugins
    ```
    npm i @wsb-harpoon/tools
    ```
3. create `/dist/index.mjs`
    ```js
   import {definePlugin} from '@wsb-harpoon/tools';
   export default definePlugin({
   // Your configuration
   })
    ```
4. link your plugin to npm
    ```sh
    # in plugin folder   
    npm link
    ```
5. link your plugin to wsb core
    ```sh
    #in `~/wsb-harpoon/.internal` (name is defined in package.json of your plugin)   
    npm link {pluginName} 
    ```


## SDK
### Plugin configuration
Wsb harpoon expect that your plugin will have default export of your plugin config in `/dist/index.mjs`
You can use `definePlugin` function from `@wsb-harpoon/tools` to create config object. It will provide you type safety
for your config.

#### name
**type `string`**

Name of your plugin has to be unique. It will be used to identify your plugin in the core. 

#### description
**type `string` (optional)**

Description of your plugin functionality

#### version
**type `string` (optional)**

Version of your plugin. 

#### commands
**type `Commands` (optional)**
```ts
export interface Commands {
  [key: string]: Command
}

export interface Command {
  description: string, // description of what command does
  handler: (config: Config) => Promise<void> // function that executes command
}
```
Definition of you plugins commands.

#### beforeInstall
**type `() => Promise<void>` (optional)**

You can use this as a hook to do some actions before installation of your plugin.

#### afterInstall
**type `() => Promise<void>` (optional)**

You can use this as a hook to do some actions after installation of your plugin.


### SDK functions
Function that are exported directly from `@wsb-harpoon/tools`

#### writeDocument
**type `(documentName: string, data: any) => Promise<void>`**

write into document


#### readDocument
**type `(documentName: string) => Promise<any> `**

read and return document


#### listDocuments
**type `() => Promise<string[]> `**

list all documents
